XS✔ ◾ Restructure the Done Video rule + make the points more specific (#9368)
SSWConsulting/SSW.Rules.Content: rules/making-a-great-done-video/rule.md

created: 2023-05-08T23:25:40.698Z
guid: 3444ccb7-0f6f-4ac6-97bc-035c491e6ec9
---
Although it can be daunting, creating a awesome 'Done Video' doesn't have to be hard. Luckily, we have you covered with these key tips to make your 'Done Video' great!

<!--endintro-->

## Content

> 1. **Generic** - Keep your video appealing and easy to understand for a global audience. Generally, the video should not directly discuss the specific tasks of a PBI, but rather address the feature or change as a whole.

Reviewer: Making it more succinct

```suggestion
1. **Generic** - Keep your video appealing and easy to understand for a global audience. The video should not directly discuss the tasks of a PBI, but rather address new the feature or changes wholistically. 
```

Author: I've gone with a combination of our changes 🙂

> 1. **Generic** - Keep your video appealing and easy to understand for a global audience. Generally, the video should not directly discuss the specific tasks of a PBI, but rather address the feature or change as a whole.

Author: ```suggestion
1. **Generic** - Keep your video appealing and easy to understand for a global audience. The video should not directly discuss the specific tasks of a PBI, but rather address the new feature or change as a whole.
```

2. **Prepare** - Plan what you're going to say and open the browser tabs you'll show beforehand. This means you should practice what you're going to say, especially your Intro and Outro!
3. **Introduction** - Start by introducing yourself and what you will be talking about. E.g. *"Hi everyone, my name is Bob Northwind and today I would like to show you..."*
4. **Show the Pain** - Demonstrate the problem that your new feature will fix, then demonstrate your feature.
5. **Ending** - Finish with a strong closing that summarizes what you talked about and conclude with a compelling call-to-action (CTA). See the rule about [SSW.Rules | Production - Do you have a call to action (aka CTA)?](/production-do-you-add-a-call-to-action/)

> 6. **Quick** - Keep it short, concise, and don't repeat yourself! Ideally we want to kee the video under 5 minutes.
> 7. **Directing Attention** - Give people an idea of where to look by mentioning positions on the screen before taking actions. E.g. *"At the bottom of the screen" or "in the top right-hand corner."*

Reviewer: Typo

```suggestion
6. **Quick** - Keep it short, concise, and don't repeat yourself! Ideally we want to keep the video under 5 minutes.
7. **Directing Attention** - Give people an idea of where to look by mentioning positions on the screen before taking actions. E.g. *"At the bottom of the screen" or "in the top right-hand corner."*
```

![Figure: Good example – Clean Outlook UI](GoodExample-clean-UI.png)
:::

> 

Reviewer 2: Hey @TobyChurches 

Is it missing a heading here?

The next list starts from 1... is it supposed to be a separate section from "presentation"?

Author: Hey @tiagov8 , No this was my bad (the IDE auto-corrected when I added the Clean UI dot points). I have just changed to be part of the same numbered list

> 1. **Resolution** - Set your screen to 1080p (1920x1080).
> 2. **Recording** - Record both your screen and webcam.
> 3. **Audio** - Check your audio devices for the best quality and make sure your audio is clear and not distracting. E.g. Position the microphone close to your mouth.
> 4. **Be Friendly** - Interact with your webcam like it's a person, and smile at the Intro and Outro.
> 5. **No Edits** - Don't edit the video; use a picture-in-picture format and hotkeys to switch visuals.
> 6. **Do a Test Recording** - After all this effort to capture a great video this can catch any last-minute changes and cut down on potential re-recordings. E.g. Test your Intro hook and screen transitions.

Author: ```suggestion
6. **Resolution** - Set your screen to 1080p (1920x1080).
7. **Recording** - Record both your screen and webcam.
8. **Audio** - Check your audio devices for the best quality and make sure your audio is clear and not distracting. E.g. Position the microphone close to your mouth.
9. **Be Friendly** - Interact with your webcam like it's a person, and smile at the Intro and Outro.
10. **No Edits** - Don't edit the video; use a picture-in-picture format and hotkeys to switch visuals.
11. **Do a Test Recording** - After all this effort to capture a great video this can catch any last-minute changes and cut down on potential re-recordings. E.g. Test your Intro hook and screen transitions.
```
